[OSDOCS-19679]: Tech Preview docs about etcd snapshot backup method for HCP (#111843)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/hcp-backup-etcd-snapshot-about.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * hosted_control_planes/hcp-backup-etcd-snapshot.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="hcp-backup-etcd-snapshot-about_{context}"]
= About the etcd snapshot method

[role="_abstract"]

> The etcd snapshot method provides an alternative to the default volume snapshot approach to back up etcd data for {hcp}.

Reviewer: ISG (under ["enables"](https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=word-usage#e)):  Avoid stating that inanimate objects grant abilities to people, as in “the product enables you to…”. Whenever possible, use a direct, user-focused alternative such as “you can use the product to …

```suggestion
You can use the etcd snapshot method as an alternative to the default volume snapshot approach to back up etcd data for {hcp}.
```

Reviewer: Also, is there a "why"? Such as: "The etcd snapshot method makes you look really tech-savvy and cool."

Author: I adopted your suggestion and added a second sentence to add the "why". The etcd backup method results in smaller backup artifacts, which makes you look really tech-savvy and cool :)

Instead of capturing persistent volume claim (PVC) content by using container storage interface (CSI) volume snapshots or a filesystem backup, you can take a snapshot of the etcd database and upload it to object storage.

The etcd snapshot approach is driven by the `HCPEtcdBackup` custom resource and is orchestrated through the {oadp-first} HyperShift plugin during Velero backup operations.

For a more detailed comparison of the etcd snapshot method and the default volume snapshot method, see the following table.

.Comparing the etcd snapshot and volume snapshot methods
[cols="3",options="header"]
|===
|Aspect |Volume snapshot (default) |etcd snapshot

|Backup mechanism
|CSI volume snapshots or a Kopia filesystem backup of etcd PVCs. One per replica; typically 3.

> |The `etcdutl snapshot save` mechanism produces a single snapshot file and uploads it to object storage.

Reviewer 2: I think `etcdutl` and `etcdctl` are swapped in the table. The existing documentation in this same repo (`hosted-cluster-etcd-backup-restore-on-premise.adoc`) uses `etcdctl snapshot save` for backup and `etcdutl snapshot restore` for restore. Here it is the other way around. Could you double-check with engineering which one is correct for the etcd snapshot flow?

Author: @jparrill Any idea who I should ask from engineering? Should I just post on the control plane Slack channel?

|Portability

> |Tied to the storage provider and the CSI driver.

Author: Note for technical reviewers: The docs for self-managed HCP on Azure are not published yet. I plan to revise this file to mention Azure after the tech preview for Azure is live.
